Stockholm attack suspect was refused residency
The suspect behind the Stockholm truck attack had been facing deportation and had extremist
sympathies, Swedish police say.
The 39yearold
Uzbek man is suspected of having driven a truck into a department store in the city on
Friday.
His application for residency was rejected in June last year and he was being sought by immigration
officials, police said.
Meanwhile, a second suspect has been placed under formal arrest.
Police said they were investigating the second suspect for a "terrorist crime [by committing] murder".
However, Reuters news agency said the person was arrested on "a lower degree of suspicion" than the first
suspect.
Police have interviewed more than 500 people over the incident, Sweden's TT news agency reports.
On Sunday, people gathered in central Stockholm for a "Lovefest" vigil against terrorism, and laid flowers
outside the Ahlens shop in tribute.
More than 20,000 people attended the vigil, AFP reported, citing city officials.
City mayor Karin Wanngard told the crowds: "Terror cannot win... instead we shall think of the kindness and
openness that characterises our city."
The first suspect had applied for permanent residency in 2014, but this was rejected, and in December 2016
he was given four weeks to leave the country, police chief Jonas Hysing told a press conference.
The suspect then disappeared, and police began searching for him, Mr Hysing added.
Four people are confirmed to have died in the attack. Police have not released their identities, but said they
were:
Two Swedish nationals
A Briton named
by his family as 41yearold
Chris Bevington
One Belgian national
Another 15 people were injured.
The truck, hijacked from a beer company, was driven into Ahlens department store in the capital on Friday
afternoon.
No terrorist group has claimed to be behind the attack.
The first suspect, who has not been named, was known to the security services and was arrested later on
Friday.
He had been seen only as a "marginal character", National Police Commissioner Dan Eliasson said.
Police say the man was known to have expressed sympathy for groups including socalled
Islamic State.
Sweden has taken in nearly 200,000 refugees and migrants in recent years more
per capita than any other
European country.
However, there was a drop in numbers last year after the country introduced new border checks.
Separately, Sweden is believed to have the highest number of Islamic State group fighters per capita in
Europe.
About 140 of the 300 who went to Syria and Iraq have since returned, leaving the authorities to grapple with
how best to reintegrate them into society.

