LAUSANNE, Switzerland – In a joint statement with officials from the Olympic Committee Of The Democratic People’s Republic Of Korea, the International Olympic Committee, speaking from its headquarters in Switzerland, said today, “We are proud to announce North Korea will, for the first time ever, host the Winter Olympic Games in 2018.”

North Korean state media announced Sunday the country will host the games at its brand new luxury ski resort in the Kangwong province. The ski resort, known as Masik Pass, has eleven ski runs complete with top-of-the-line equipment and boasts a small village at its base that includes several coffeehouses, a spa, a karaoke bar, and two hotels where Olympic athletes will stay.

Due to overcrowding at Masik Pass, the vast majority of Olympic attendees will stay at the recently renovated Ryugyong Hotel in Pyongyang, North Korea’s capital. Furthermore, the DPRK has announced the construction of an “exclusive resort complex” in Pukchang, a county in South Pyongan, where American and South Korean Olympic athletes and attendees will reside. According to state media, the “glorious resort rests along the Taedong River” which separates it from Pukchang political prison camp Number 18.

“This is a big step for North Korea as far as international relations go,” former CIA analyst Harry Pfarrer told CNN’s Anderson Cooper. “In the months leading up to the games the world will be watching to see how Kim Jong Un handles things on his side of the DMZ.”

Following a celebration honoring a new hall in the Victorious Fatherland Liberation War Museum in Pyongyang, Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un met with members of the North Korean Olympic team to congratulate them on past achievements which were accomplished thanks to Kim’s on-the-spot guidance. “We will crush the empire of devils,” the Dear Leader said, referring to the United States, while adding “the toothless wolves will be reduced to ashes in a conflagration of hell fire.”

The Korean People’s Army will hold the responsibility of ferrying Olympic attendees to and from Pyongyang to the site of the Winter Games while simultaneously providing security at Masik Pass resort. Reserve forces will be called up to supply added layers of security around the country and to prevent foreigners from accessing restricted areas.

This will mark the first time North Korea has taken part in the Winter Olympics since 1992 when the country took home three bronze medals for short track speed skating. However, North Korea contests the official account, with state media reporting athletes from the DPRK took home every gold medal at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi despite not participating in the games.