Stockholm attack: Uzbek held for
'terrorist crimes'
Swedish prosecutors say man arrested for 'terrorist crimes' after truck
rammed into crowds in Stockholm, killing four.
A 39yearold
Uzbek national arrested on "suspicion of
terrorist crime" was likely to be the driver of a truck
thatrammed into a crowd of people in central Stockholm a
day earlier, killing four, according to Swedish authorities.
Sweden's police chief said on Saturday authorities were
confident they had detained the man who carried out the
attack.
"There is nothing that tells us that we have the wrong
person," Dan Eliason said, but added he did not know
whether others were involved in the attack. "We cannot
exclude this."
Swedish media reported police had arrested a second man
and that he had a connection to the previously arrested
person, citing police sources. The police declined to
comment on whether it had arrested any additional
suspects.
Eliason also said police found something in the truck that
"could be a bomb or an incendiary object, we are still
investigating it".
Prosecutor Hans Ihrman said the suspect has not yet
spoken to authorities and could not confirm whether he was
a legal resident of Sweden.
The incident, which also left 15 people injured, occurred just
before 13:00 GMT on Friday at the corner of the Ahlens
department store and Drottninggatan, the Swedish capital's
biggest pedestrian street, aboveground
from its central
metro station.
Sweden's Prime Minister Stefan Lofven said everything
indicated it was "a terror attack".
"We are thinking of the dead and the injured and their
families. I am urging the public to be vigilant and keep
updating the police," Lofven said.
The capital was paralysed with a huge security presence
after the attack. Police told people to stay away from the
centre of the city, and movie theatres, as well as many
shops, were closed.
The metro system was halted, train traffic from the nearby
Central Station disrupted and thousands of people were
seen walking across the city's bridges with no alternative
transportation available.
Photos from the scene showed a beer truck sticking out of
the department store.
Swedish beer maker said one of its vehicles had been
carjacked earlier on Friday as its driver was unloading
goods at a restaurant.
"We stood inside a shoe store and heard something ... and
then people started to scream," witness Jan Granroth told
the Aftonbladet daily.
"I looked out of the store and saw a big truck."
Bodylike
forms covered by blankets were seen on
Drottninggatan.
The vehicle caught fire after driving through the busy
pedestrian zone and slamming into the building.
The European Union offered Sweden support and solidarity
on Friday.
"An attack on any of our member states is an attack on us
all," said EU chief executive JeanClaude
Juncker.
"One of Europe's most vibrant and colourful cities appears
to have been struck by those wishing it and
our very way of
life harm."
A spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel said:
"We stand together against terror."
Friday's incident was near the site of a December 2010
attack in which Taimour Abdulwahab, a Swedish citizen
who lived in Britain, detonated a suicide bomb, killing
himself and injuring two others.
Several attacks in which trucks or cars have driven into
crowds have taken place in Europe in the past year.
In London last month, a man in a car drove into pedestrians
on Westminster Bridge, killing four, and then stabbed a
policeman to death before being shot by police.
In Nice, France, last July, a truck killed 86 people
celebrating Bastille Day, and one in Berlin in December
smashed through a Christmas market, killing 12 people.
