Deadly blasts hit Coptic churches in
Tanta, Alexandria
Dozens killed and wounded in ISIL-claimed
bomb blasts on packed
Coptic Christian churches in Tanta and Alexandria.
At least 27 people have been killed in an explosion inside a
church in the Egyptian Nile Delta city of Tanta, local media
reported, as state television said another blast killed 16 in
front of a church in Alexandria.
The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL, also known
as ISIS) armed group on Sunday claimed responsibility for
both attacks, in a statement via its Amaq website.
The first attack occurred in the Coptic church of Mar Girgis,
also known as St George, which was packed with
worshippers marking Palm Sunday, a Christian feast
commemorating the entry of Jesus Christ into Jerusalem.
Egypt's state television reported that at least 69 people were
wounded in the attack.
Several hours after the bombing in Tanta, another explosion
hit in front of Saint Mark's church in Alexandria, killing at
least 16 people, according to the health ministry.
Media reports said dozens were wounded in the attack,
which state TV said was a suicide bombing.
Mahjoob Zweiri, associate professor at Qatar University,
told Al Jazeera that Tanta has seen several attacks in the
past.
"The area and Christians both have witnessed such
accidents before. There is a good percentage of Christians in
this area and other nonMuslims
too," Zweiri said.
"I believe when there are such religious events in the
country, authorities should take security measures into
consideration as there are always chances of attacks," he
added.
Timothy Kaldas, nonresident
fellow at the Tahrir Institute
for Middle East Policy, said the attacks were designed to
create religious strife.
"It is alarming to see a specific religious group being
targeted, which is going to rattle the Coptic community and
many Egyptians in general," Kaldas added.
Copts repeatedly targeted
The bombings were the latest in a series of assaults on
Egypt's Christian minority, who make up about 10 percent
of the population and have been repeatedly targeted by
armed groups.
They also come just weeks before Pope Francis is due to
visit Egypt.
CBC TV showed footage from inside the church in Tanta,
with a large number of people gathered around what
appeared to be lifeless, bloody bodies covered with papers.
A bombing at Cairo's largest Coptic cathedral killed at least
25 people and wounded 49 in December, many of them
women and children, in the deadliest attack on Egypt's
Christian minority in years.
