WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a high-profile visit to the United States this week, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed members of the pro-Israel lobby, imploring them to foster support among Congress to relocate the Palestinian people to the state of Wyoming. In doing so, Netanyahu told a packed ballroom, the move would serve to “strengthen U.S.-Israeli relations while significantly reducing tensions between Israel and its neighbors.”

According to Netanyahu, the plan to move approximately 6.08 million Palestinians out of Gaza and the West Bank could be accomplished in under three years, with Palestinians making the journey aboard chartered container ships, dramatically reducing transportation costs for U.S. taxpayers. In the meantime, Israel would continue to expand its settlements into previously occupied areas.

“Israel has always enjoyed the support and friendship of the United States,” Netanyahu said. “However, true friends support each other in times of need. Should the United States fail to assist us in the relocation process, it would put an irreversible rift on U.S.-Israeli relations and jeopardize the safety and security of the Jewish State.” The prime minister added that should the U.S. neglect to act, it would show “an unequivocal lack of commitment to the Mideast peace process.”

This reporter spoke with Herschel Krustovski, a representative of the American Israeli Public Affairs Committee, who has been working with officials from the Israeli government to lay the groundwork for the relocation process. “We found Wyoming to be the best possible location for a number of reasons. First, it is sparsely populated; second, despite the climate not being that of the Middle East, the terrain bears a striking resemblance to Israel. We feel that will help the Palestinian people during the adjustment process.”

Wyoming state legislature seemed optimistic about the economic value a Palestinian relocation would bring. Republican State Senator John Marston, who attended this week’s policy conference at AIPAC and met privately with Netanyahu, said, “We’re all in agreement that not only does this move benefit Israel, but also the great state of Wyoming. We have a rich history of agriculture and mineral production in our state and the influx of the Palestinian people would provide a significant boost in our economy that I believe would benefit the entire nation.”

Should the United States decide to accept the Palestinian people, Senator Marston says Wyoming will welcome them with open arms. “I’ve already spoken with members of our state legislature and we’re preparing to pass legislation that will allow us to combine Weston, Niobrara, and Goshen counties into one, thereby creating a suitable home for the Palestinian people.”

The central purpose of Prime Minister Netanyahu’s trip to the United States this week was a scheduled appearance before Congress meant to dissuade American involvement in a proposed U.S.-Iran nuclear deal. Netanyahu told Congress the deal would turn the Middle East into a “nuclear tinder box.” The prime minister made several appearances, including one with the AIPAC, which he did not clear with the White House.