--- Published before the results, updated with the fake death of "Jo Cox":
Trick to falsify "elections" at will relies on two stages for simulated reality:
1. mass media 
2, political parties and in the case of a referendum: additionally the leaders of the two camps.
 
Trick as simple as this:
- prevent anyone on stage to question to what lengths polls and published results are manufactured
- prevent verification of "results", starting with the people counting votes at each ballot box. In other words: conceal results for each ballot box.
 
Trick in two steps
1, have the media publish polls according to the script, 
2. publish only the aggregated "results", alias what was in script.
 
BREXIT  Reality: not too close to calll but more than 70% votes to LEAVE the EU
The script "LEAVE wins as close to 50-50 as it gets" is a psy-op.
The cast includes the media, the leaders of the two camps and a third stage where numbers are produced at will: financial markets.
 
Why the psy-op can be staged
From TV channels and political parties to major banks and all 30 Dow Jones companies:  ALL controlled by one and the same entity, the illuminati.
The same goes for the leaders of both camps in a referendum, the ones who validate the fake aggregate results. 
In other words: mass media and political parties are totally controlled same as the "financial markets".
These three entity types generate numbers at will: from polls to election results, from exchange rates to credit ratings and corporate earnings, from BIG Pharma to BIG Banks.
In the Brexit script the "financial markets" are used 
- first to have people swallow the LEAVE victory with the fakke 51% instead of the real 75%.
- later to justify reverting the LEAVE decision ,in the coming second "referendum".
 
LEAVE victory with 51% is a psy-op, same as "Jo Cox"'s fake death
The remake of Anna Lindh's fake blood before the 2003 EU referendum in Sweden advances the same agenda: have the audience accept a script that turns more than two thirds anti-EU votes into 50-50 results.
Same goes for the "markets reaction" to "polls".
 
Simulation of the LEAVE victory has two steps:
1. Advance agendas including:
- set the stage for the BIG BANG, that includes stripping human cattle from savings and pensions.
- have the EU sign TTIP,  which includes stripping human cattle of all EU states from the National Health Service.
In other words: have the british government play "no longer opposed to some of its clauses because no longer negotiating, as it's no longer part of the EU".
last 
 
2. Repeat the referendum to have this time Britain "return" to the EU.
Setting the stage for this step will start immediatelu after the simulated LEAVE and the "markets reaction" will again be part of it.
The illuminati actors playing "far-right "anti-EU leaders" (Farage & Co) will play the same suicide bomber role  as "leftists" Maduro in Venezuela. or Tsipras in Greece: create "echomich chaos".
 
--- Added after "results" announced:
The difference between 52 and 51
As votes were being "counted" the published results were of the same type as the final result: 51 and two decimals.
If you round the LEAVE official results you get 52%, but the two digits that human cattle perceives are 51%, the rounding you get by simply ignoring the decimals.
And that is NOT a detail, because 51 not 52 is the number fulfilling this line in script: "LEAVE wins as close to 50-50 as it gets"-.
 
Setting the stage to complete the Anna Lindh remake,
The next "decision" act, another referendum to silence once for all the 3 out of 4 britons who want to leave the EU, started minutes after the "results" were announced
Example, served as illuminati joke by using the words vote and count: "BREXIT: LEAVE VOTERS REGRETFUL, WISH THEY'D VOTED REMAIN. Among the reasons for regret: "I didn't think my vote would count.".