Aung San Suu Kyi denies ethnic
cleansing of Rohingya
Myanmar leader's remarks come despite UN and rights groups saying
army crackdown may amount to crimes against humanity.
Aung San Suu Kyi's
NLD party came to power in a historic 2015 election 
Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi has denied security
forces carried out ethnic cleansing of the
country's Rohingya Muslims, despite the UN and human
rights groups saying a crackdown by the army may amount
to crimes against humanity.
Tens of thousands of people have fled Myanmar's Rakhine
state since the military began a security operation last
October in response to what it says was an attack by
Rohingya armed men on border posts, in which nine police
officers were killed.
A UN report in February said the army's campaign targeting
the Rohingya involved mass killings, gang rapes and the
burning down of villages, likely amounting to crimes against
humanity and ethnic cleansing.
In neighbouring Bangladesh, where more than 75,000
Rohingya have fled to escape the crackdown, people have
recounted grisly accounts of horrendous army
abuse,including soldiers allegedly executing an eightmonthold
baby while his mother was gangraped
by five
security officers.
"What kind of hatred could make a man stab a baby crying
out for his mother's milk," UN rights chief Zeid Raad alHussein
said in a statement at the time. "What kind of
'clearance operation' is this? What national security goals
could possibly be served by this?"
'Too strong an expression'
Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Laureate whose international
star as a rights defender is waning over the treatment of the
Rohingya, has not condemned the crackdown, and has not
spoken out in defence of the persecuted minority.
Instead, she has called for space to handle the issue in a
country where the more than one million Rohingya are not
recognised as an ethnic minority and widely vilified as
"illegal" immigrants from Bangladesh even
though many
have lived in Buddhistmajority
Myanmar for generations.
In a rare interview with the BBC televised on Wednesday,
Aung San Suu Kyi said ethnic cleansing was "too strong" a
term to describe the situation in Rakhine.
"I don't think there is ethnic cleansing going on," she said.
"I think ethnic cleansing is too strong an expression to use
for what is happening."
Aung San Suu Kyi also told the BBC there was "a lot of
hostility" in Rakhine.
"It is Muslims killing Muslims, as well, if they think they are
collaborating with authorities.
"It is not just a matter of ethnic cleansing. It is a matter of
people on different sides of a divide, and this divide we are
trying to close up. As best as possible and not to widen it
further," she said.
Myanmar has launched its own probe into possible crimes
in Rakhine and appointed former UN chief Kofi Annan to
head a commission tasked with healing longsimmering
divisions between Buddhists and Muslims.
Last month, the UN rights council agreed to send a factfinding
mission to examine the allegations of torture,
murder and rape committed by troops.
Aung San Suu Kyi said the army was "not free to rape,
pillage and torture".
"They are free to go in and fight. And of course, that is in the
constitution ... Military matters are to be left to the army,"
she said, adding that she aimed to amend the constitution
which allows the military total control of defence.
In the interview, Aung San Suu Kyi also tried to reassure
those who fled that "if they come back they will be safe".
Her National League for Democracy (NLD) faced the ballot
box on Saturday in byelections
across the country, winning
a string of seats but losing out in ethnic minority
areasincluding Rakhine.
The NLD came to power in a historic 2015 election which
ended half a century of brutal military rule, but there has
been disillusionment with the administration as it struggles
to push through reforms and ease unrest.
