A mother has claimed that children were kneaded to death in bread machines while men were baked in over as ISIS slaughtered Christians in Syria.

Alice Assaf said her son George was killed after he refused to identify himself with a Muslim name.

But she claims that while her son was shot and beaten to death, other citizens suffered a much worse fate.

It was two years ago when Alice's suburb was targeted by the terror group.

She says that she and her children were forced to hide in the home of a Muslim neighbour during the massacre.

In an interview with Roads of Success , she says: "Later on, we heard that the militants grabbed six strong men working at the bakery and burned them inside the oven.

"After that, they caught some 250 kids and kneaded them like dough in the bakery dough machine."

And when the Syrian army attempted to fight back, Alice says IS began throwing children as young as four off the top of balconies in a bid to scare soldiers away.

Speaking about her son, George, Alice said she pleaded with him to change his name and deny his faith after the neighbour they took refuge with betrayed them.

Alice remembers her son's words: "I don't want to hide myself. You [Alice] are the one who taught me to follow what Christ said , 'whoever denies me before men, I will also deny them before Heaven.'"

She added: "They took him to a backyard to shoot and kill him. They killed him because his name was 'George'."

Alice managed to escape the wrath of ISIS but says her son was buried in a mass grave and she does not know the whereabouts of his body.

The horror news is the latest in a long line of brutal murders the twisted death cult has revelled in.

Earlier this year, footage emerged of IS militants throwing a man off a roof, allegedly for being homosexual, before pelting his dead body with stones.

ISIS fighters have also destroyed and burnt Christian relics - including pulling a cross down off the top of a church - as well as destroying bottles of alcohol.

It is thought that the destruction of Christian churches is carried out by religious police known as 'hisbah'.

According to Islam QA, the hisbah ensure sharia law is adhered to and guard against any infringements which might include:

Free mixing of the sexes and wanton display of beauty
Imitation of either of the sexes by the other
Men making approaches to women either verbally or by their actions
Profane, obscene or indecent speech
Playing radios, TVs or recorders near mosques or in such a way as to disturb the worshippers
Non-Muslims openly manifesting their beliefs or the symbols of their religion, or showing disrespect towards they symbols and rulings of Islam
Displaying or selling pictures, books, video or audio recordings which go against Islamic etiquette or Islamic beliefs
Displaying 3-D or promiscuous images, or the symbols of non-Islamic religions such as the cross, the star of David, images of the Buddha
Manufacturing or promoting or trading in intoxicants
Means that lead to immoral actions such as adultery, homosexuality and gambling - or running houses where evil and immoral actions may be committed
Celebrating innovated, un-Islamic festivals and occasions
Practising witchcraft, magic and trickery in order to consume people's wealth unlawfully
Cheating in weights and measures