US launches cruise missiles on Syrian
airbase
Syrian army denounces 'aggression' after US launches nearly 60
missile strikes following suspected gas attack in Idlib.
The United States on Friday fired dozens of cruise missiles
at a governmentcontrolled
airbase in Syria, in retaliation
for a suspected chemical weapons attack on a rebelheld
town that killed scores of civilians.
The Pentagon said 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles were fired
from two warships in the Mediterranean at the Shayrat
airfield, targeting the base from where US officials believe
Tuesday's attack in Khan Sheikhoun had been launched.
At least six people were killed in the early morning strike,
according to the Syrian army, which denounced the US
"aggression" as a violation of international law.
In a statement carried by the staterun
SANA news agency
and read on television, the military said the US strikes were
done on a "pretext" of the Khan Sheikhoun attack, without
the full facts being disclosed.
It also said the attack, which caused extensive damage to
the base, made the US a partner of "terrorist groups".
It was the first direct military action the US has taken
against Syrian President Bashar alAssad's
forces in the the
country's longrunning
conflict, now in its seventh year.
"There can be no dispute that Syria used banned chemical
weapons, violated its obligations under the chemical
weapons convention and ignored the urging of the UN
Security Council," US President Donald Trump said in a
televised statement after the strike.
Syria's opposition National Coalition hailed the US attack,
saying it puts an end to an age of "impunity" and should be
just the beginning of further military action against Assad's
forces.
Russia, a key military ally of the Assad government, strongly
condemned the strikes, saying Washington's action would
"inflict major damage on USRussia
ties", according to
Russian news agencies.
The Pentagon said that Russia had been notified ahead of
the operation but
US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said
that Washington had "sought no approval from Moscow".
The attack drew widespread international condemnation
and public revulsion, prompting the United Nations to
pledge it would investigate it as a possible war crime.
The Syrian government denied carrying out the raid. Russia
has blamed the opposition, saying a government shell hit a
building where rebels were producing chemical weapons.
The rebels deny this.
Turkey said samples from victims of the attack indicate they
were exposed to sarin, a highly toxic nerve agent.
Syria maintains it did not use chemical weapons, blaming
opposition fighters for stockpiling the chemicals.
"I stress, once again, that the Syrian Arab Army did not and
will not use such weapons even against the terrorists who
are targeting our people," Syria's Foreign Minister Walid
Muallem told reporters in Damascus on Thursday.
At the time of the US strike, Trump was at his MaraLago
estate in Palm Beach, Florida, where he is holding two days
of meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
Trump said the strike was in the "vital national security
interest" of the US.
"I call on all civilized nations to join us in seeking to end the
slaughter and bloodshed in Syria, and also to end terrorism
of all kinds and all types," he said.
Al Jazeera's James Bays, reporting from Palm Beach, said:
"This may be a oneoff
operation, but it will be quite
difficult from now for Trump to get himself out of the
argument over the future of Syria, the political future of
Assad, the UN talks process in Geneva. The Trump
administration is now at the centre of it all."
Christopher Swift, professor of national security studies at
Georgetown University, said the most important question
was whether the Trump administration's vision in
launching the strikes was "an impulsive one or a strategic
one".
"It's not clear to me, yet, whether this administration has
thought through the implications of the actions they took
this evening," he told Al Jazeera.
"If the president has a plan, then it will be interesting to see
how that plan comes through. But if he doesn't, he may have
done more harm than good."
While Friday's strike was the first direct US military action
against Assad's forces, fighter jets by a USled
coalition last
year killed dozens of troops fighting for the Syrian
government after being "misidentified" as ISIL fighters,
according to the US army.
More than 100 Assad loyalists were also wounded after the
attack near the eastern city of Deir Az Zor on September 16.
Over the past 24 hours, the US.led Coalition has continued
targeting ISIL positions in Syria, conducting at least 20
strikes.
