Syria chemical 'attack': What we know
At least 70 people have been killed in a suspected chemical attack on the rebelheld
town of Khan
Sheikhoun in northwestern
Syria.
Hundreds suffered symptoms consistent with reaction to a nerve agent after what the opposition and
Western powers said was a Syrian government air strike on the area on Tuesday morning.
The Syrian military denied using any chemical agents, while its ally Russia said an air strike hit a rebel depot
full of chemical munitions.
What happened?
Activists and witnesses say warplanes attacked Khan Sheikhoun, about 50km (30 miles) south of the city of
Idlib, early on Tuesday, when many people were asleep.
Mariam Abu Khalil, a 14yearold
resident who was awake, told the New York Times that she had seen an
aircraft drop a bomb on a onestorey
building.
The explosion sent a yellow mushroom cloud into the air that stung her eyes. "It was like a winter fog," she
said. She sheltered in her home, but recalled that when people started arriving to help the wounded, "they
inhaled the gas and died".
Hussein Kayal, a photographer for the proopposition
Edlib Media Center (EMC), told the Associated
Press that he was awoken by the sound of an explosion at about 06:30 (03:30 GMT). When he reached the
scene, there was no smell, he said. He found people lying on the floor, unable to move and with constricted
pupils.
Mohammed Rasoul, the head of a charity ambulance service in Idlib, told the BBC that he heard about the
attack at about 06:45 and that when his medics arrived 20 minutes later they found people, many of them
children, choking in the street.
The Union of Medical Care and Relief Organisations (UOSSM), which funds hospitals in rebelheld
Syria, said three of its staff in Khan Sheikhoun were affected while treating patients in the streets and had to
be rushed to intensive care.
Victims experienced symptoms including redness of the eyes, foaming from the mouth, constricted pupils,
blue facial skin and lips, severe shortness of breath and asphyxiation, it added.
A Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) medical team supporting the Bab alHawa
hospital, near the Turkish
border, confirmed similar symptoms in eight patients brought there from Khan Sheikhoun.
Aftermath of attack in pictures (Warning: graphic images)
How many victims?
Rescue workers and opposition activists posted photos and videos on social media that showed victims
exhibiting the symptoms described by doctors, as well as many people who had died.
The EMC posted photos showing what appeared to be at least seven dead children in the back of a pickup
truck. There were no visible traumatic injuries.
Another photo published by the group showed the bodies of at least 14 men, women and children on a street
outside a hospital in Khan Sheikhoun.
The oppositionrun
health directorate in Idlib province, which is almost entirely controlled by rebel fighters
and alQaedalinked
jihadists, says at least 70 people were killed, while the Syrian Observatory put the
death toll at 72, including 20 children and 17 women.
However, some fear the death toll will rise, with the UOSSM saying at least 100 people had died and 400
others had suffered respiratory problems.

It was also not immediately clear whether anyone was killed when Khan Sheikhoun's main hospital was
struck by a rocket on Tuesday afternoon.
The source of the projectile was not clear, but the EMC said warplanes had targeted clinics and the
headquarters of the Syria Civil Defence, whose rescue workers are known as the White Helmets.
What were they exposed to?
The World Health Organisation said on Wednesday that the likelihood of a chemical being responsible was
"amplified by an apparent lack of external injuries reported in cases showing a rapid onset of similar
symptoms, including acute respiratory distress as the main cause of death".
"Some cases appear to show additional signs consistent with exposure to organophosphorus chemicals, a
category of chemicals that includes nerve agents."
The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) expressed serious concern about the
reports and said a factfinding
mission was "in the process of gathering and analysing information from all
available sources".
The OPCW will not be able to confirm anything until samples are tested at an accredited laboratory, but a
doctor at a hospital in the town of Sarmin who treated some of the casualties believes it was the nerve agent
Sarin.
"All the patients had the same symptoms difficulty
in breathing, weakness," Dr Abdulhai Tennari told the
BBC. "They had very huge secretions in their respiratory tracts, which induced suffocation."
He noted that when the most serious cases were given an antidote for Sarin poisoning, atropine, their
conditions became stable and they survived.
MSF said the patients' symptoms were "consistent with exposure to a neurotoxic agent such as Sarin". Its
medical teams also reported that victims smelled of bleach, suggesting they had been exposed to chlorine
as well.
The spectre of nerve agents in Syria again
What does the Syrian government say?
A Syrian military statement published by state media categorically denied the use of any chemical or toxic
substance" in Khan Sheikhoun on Tuesday, adding: "It has never used them, anytime, anywhere, and will
not do so in the future."
Russia, which has carried out air strikes in support of President Assad since 2015, meanwhile said the
Syrian air force had struck Khan Sheikhoun "between 11:30am and 12:30pm local time" on Tuesday, but that
the target had been "a large terrorist ammunition depot" on its eastern outskirts.
"On the territory of the depot, there were workshops which produced chemical warfare munitions," it added,
without providing any evidence. "Terrorists had been transporting chemical munitions from this largest
arsenal to the territory of Iraq."
The ministry said the chemical munitions had also been used during the final stages of the battle for control
of the northern Syrian city of Aleppo last autumn, asserting that the symptoms of the victims were "the
same".
Syria chemical 'attack': What now?
Is Russia's explanation credible?
Hamish de BrettonGordon,
a former commanding officer of the British Armed Forces Joint Chemical
Biological Radiological Nuclear (CBRN) Regiment, said it was "pretty fanciful".
"Axiomatically, if you blow up Sarin, you destroy it," he told the BBC.
"It's very clear it's a Sarin attack," he added. "The view that it's an alQaeda
or rebel stockpile of Sarin that's
been blown up in an explosion, I think is completely unsustainable and completely untrue."
Mr de BrettonGordon
also noted that chlorine was the only chemical believed to been used in attacks in
Aleppo over the past year.
A recent report by Human Rights Watch said government helicopters had dropped bombs containing
chlorine on rebelheld
areas of Aleppo on at least eight occasions between 17 November and 13 December,
killing nine civilians.
Hasan Haj Ali, commander of the Free Idlib Army rebel group, called Russia's claim a "lie" and said rebel
fighters did not have the capability to produce nerve agents.
The UK's representative to the UN, Matthew Rycroft, also told the Security Council that his country had
seen nothing to suggest that any nonstate
actors in Syria had the sort of chemical weapons that would
have been consistent with the symptoms.
Francois Delattre of France meanwhile said there was "no fire" after the air strike, even though a strike on an
ammunition depot "would have caused a fire".
It was also not clear why there was several hours' difference between the time of the strike reported by
multiple witnesses and that stated by Russia.
Moscow's short account gave no evidence for its suggestion that a group was sending chemical weaponry
to Iraq. The socalled
Islamic State group, which has used sulphur mustard in Syria and Iraq, is not present
in Khan Sheikhoun.
Why is there a war in Syria?
What is Sarin?
Sarin is highly toxic and considered 20 times as deadly as cyanide.
As with all nerve agents, Sarin inhibits the action of the acetylcholinesterase enzyme, which deactivates
signals that cause human nerve cells to fire. This blockage pushes nerves into a continual "on" state. The
heart and other muscles including
those involved in breathing spasm.
Sufficient exposure can lead to
death via asphyxiation within minutes.
Sarin is almost impossible to detect because it is a clear, colourless and tasteless liquid that has no odour in
its purest form. It can also evaporate and spread through the air.
Has Sarin been used in Syria before?
The Syrian government was accused by Western powers of firing rockets filled with Sarin at several rebelheld
suburbs of the capital Damascus in August 2013, killing hundreds of people.
President Bashar alAssad
denied the charge, blaming rebel fighters, but he did subsequently agree to
destroy Syria's declared chemical arsenal.
Despite that, the OPCW and UN have continued to document the use of chemicals in attacks.
A joint investigation concluded in October that government forces had used chlorine as a weapon at least
three times between 2014 and 2015. It also found Islamic State militants had used the blister agent sulphur
mustard.

