Police searching for Dortmund team bus
attackers
German football club was en route to stadium for a Champions League
quarterfinal
when three bombs went off.
German investigators are hunting for possible suspects
responsible for three explosions that rocked Dortmund
football team's bus, injuring a player.
The assault, described by Dortmund city's police chief as a
"targeted attack" against the team, shook German football
ahead of a Champions League quarterfinal
at home to
Monaco.
Borussia Dortmund's team bus was attacked with explosives
on Tuesday shortly before the start of the match, injuring
defender Marc Bartra and forcing the quarterfinal
to be
postponed by a day.
German police said they did not know who was behind the
attack, in which three explosions went off at 7:15pm near
the hotel where the team was staying, but said the team
appeared to be the target.
Investigations will also focus on a letter claiming
responsibility for the attack that was found close to the site
of the blasts.
"The letter claims responsibility for what happened,"
prosecutor Sandra Luecke said late Tuesday, telling
journalists that "its authenticity is being verified".
German authorities have held off from describing it as a
terror attack, saying that it is too early to determine the
motive.
The blast shattered the bus windows and the vehicle was
burned on the right hand side.
"The bus turned onto the main road, when there was a huge
noise a
big explosion," Dortmund's Swiss goalkeeper
Roman Burki told Swiss media.
"After the bang, we all crouched down in the bus. Anyone
who could, threw himself on the floor. We did not know if
more would come."
Burki said Marc Bartra was "hit by splinters of broken
glass". Dortmund's press spokesman said the 26yearold
had broken the radius bone in his right wrist.
Dortmund said Bartra had an operation on Tuesday after
"breaking the radial bone in his arm and getting bits of
debris lodged in his hand".
Dortmund's president Reinhard Rauball said he believed
the team would be ready for Wednesday's game.
"The players will be able to push this out of their minds and
be in a position to put in their usual performances," he said.
"The worst thing would be if whoever committed this attack
was now able to get to affect them through it."
'Lot to deal with'
But exDortmund
player Steffen Freund, who won the
Champions League with Borussia in 1997, said there would
be scars.
"When there has been a direct attack on the team bus, then
it's not just forgotten by Wednesday," said the 47yearold.
"Mentally and psychologically that is hard to absorb, it's a
lot to deal with."
Dortmund police said security would be tightened at
Wednesday's match, with a major deployment of officers to
"ensure that the game is played safely".
The club said other players were safe and there was no
danger inside the Signal Iduna Park stadium.
"The news that the game had to be called of was received
very calmly," Al Jazeera's Dominic Kane reported from
outside the stadium.
"Many of the fans of Monaco, the opposition team, were
chanting Dortmund's name in
effect expressing their
solidarity with the plight of the fans, the team and the
player injured in this incident."
Germany has been on high alert since a series of attacks last
year, including the Christmas market truck assaultin Berlin
in December that claimed 12 lives.
